opalescence boost is for patients that
want a whiter smile fast this in office
whitening treatment is the answer
approximately an hour to an hour and a
half appointment is all that's required
for the most brilliant whitening
treatment available on the market
opalescence boost is a welcomed
alternative to other in office bleaching
systems boost whitening relies on a
simple syringe 2 syringe chemical
activation as opposed to the expensive
and intimidating light systems normally
suggested for in-office whitening
procedures the powerful 38 percent
hydrogen peroxide formula is not
activated until used in the office and
contains potassium nitrate and fluoride
which has been proven to reduce caries
susceptibility lower sensitivity and
improve the micro hardness of the enamel
the distinct red color of the formula
facilitates proper placement and
complete removal the mixing occurs via
novel jet mix and syringe 2 syringe
mixing which assures the formula is
always fresh and at its best just before
delivery any mix product that is left
over from the treatment must be
refrigerated and is good for 10 days
opalescence boost is a 38 percent
hydrogen peroxide power bleaching gel
the distinct syringe 2 syringe mixing
ensures freshness for every application
once chemically activated the gel can be
used to effectively whiten teeth in
about one hour less time is required for
mild stains more difficult stains may
require additional treatments
opalescence boost is applied as follows
begin by placing self-supporting plastic
cheek retractors place a tongue bite
block in a molar region and instruct
patient to hold in place with gentle but
firm biting pressure ultra dent
recommends using the iso block or prop
guard completely rinse and air dry teeth
apply a 1 to 2 millimeter wide barrier
of opal dam on the gingiva seal the
interproximal spaces overlap the resin
approximately 0.5 millimeters onto dry
enamel to seal extend the resin one
tooth beyond the last tooth to be
bleached
check that all gingival tissues at the
resin margin are covered and a seal is
established like cure the resin
approximately 10 seconds per tooth to
mix the activator with the bleaching
agent ensure the red and clear syringes
are securely attached together quickly
and forcefully press the clear plunger
into the middle clear barrel using your
thumb press the chemical from the red
syringe into the clear syringe continue
by reversing this action mix a minimum
of 20 times rapidly 10 times for each
direction or side press the entire mixed
contents into the red syringe remove the
clear syringe and dispose twist a 20
gauge micro FX tip onto the red syringe
check material flow on cotton gauze or a
mixing pad to ensure evenness of flow
before using intraoral e if resistance
is felt do not proceed attach a new tip
and test again before using on the
patient apply a layer of opalescence
boost bleaching gel approximately one
millimeter thick over the labial
surfaces extend the gel slightly onto
the incisal or occlusal edges for
optimum effectiveness stir or agitate
every 5 minutes leave each application
of gel on the teeth for 15 minutes and
remove the gel using suction only to
prevent opalescence boost from
splattering onto the soft tissues do not
use water to rinse during the initial
suction ultra Dan recommends using a
lure vacuum adapter with a Sergi tip use
caution not to dislodge the resin
barrier after all visible gel is removed
follow with a gentle thorough rinse
direct the water toward the incisal edge
while using high-volume suction this
process may be repeated up to six times
unless the patient becomes overly
sensitive evaluate the shade change
after each application the cured opal
dam resin is quickly and easily removed
in one or a few large pieces the total
procedure typically lasts 60 minutes
with three to four applications
occurring if additional whitening is
desired and no significant
is observed scheduled a patient for
repeat treatment at least three days
following the initial treatment be
certain to read the product instructions
warnings and information for the patient
contained in the package and advise the
patient accordingly most all clinicians
who provide in office bleaching
follow-up with tray bleaching this
assures bleaching further distally in
the arch and or to achieve ultimate
level of whitening an office can choose
to make a custom tray for the patient to
use as a follow-up or use the preloaded
opalescence tray white supreme tray as
they require no additional impressions
models and lap time
over half of survey dentists report that
patient demand for in office whitening
has increased over the past few years
the same number of dentists report that
their patients are very satisfied with
the results of their in office whitening
the reality is that today's media
promotes immediate results when it comes
to whiter teeth whether it's an upcoming
wedding a business meeting or simply an
important date many of your patients
will want the quickest path to a
brilliant white smile and you'll want to
inform them of the benefits of using
opalescence boost many in office
whiteners require rubberdam a whitening
light or both rubber dams can cause
bleeding and whitening lights can burn
or irritate soft tissues in the mouth
when opalescence boost is used with opal
dam gingival barrier the need for
uncomfortable rubber dams is eliminated
and the clinician attains quick and easy
barrier protection in addition
opalescent boost has never required a
light for activation because opalescent
boost is chemically activated
you won't need a light to activate the
chemicals and your patients won't be
subjected to the sensitivity or dryness
that can be associated with the hot
lighting system other manufacturers may
use whitening lights which may serve
more as marketing tools than anything
else people see light activated
whitening products on TV and assume that
all effective in office whitening
treatments must use a light the reality
is however opalescence boost creates the
same brilliant results without the
expensive and intimidating light by
eliminating the rubber dam and the
lights you and your patients save time
and discomfort
best of all opalescent boost is a less
expensive whitening solution there's no
need for bulky intimidating equipment
and there are no extra pieces or parts
that come with the in-office whitening
process in office whiteners come in a
variety of concentration formulas the
fact is different concentrations
typically dictate how long the material
should be used with 38 percent hydrogen
peroxide opalescent boost offers one of
the highest percentages available for
in-office bleaching this means that each
application of opalescent boost only
needs to be applied between 10
20 minutes opalescence boost also
includes PF which has been proven to
reduce carry susceptibility lower
sensitivity improve the micro hardness
of the enamel and improve enamel health